---
title: "Conference: Automated Driving Systems Operating as Mobility as a Service: Operational Risks and SAE J3016 Standard"
collection: conference
permalink: /conferences/rams2023
excerpt: 'Operational Safety ADS Project'
date: 2023-01-25
venue: 'The 69th Annual Reliability and Maintainability Symposium - RAMS 2023'
paperurl: 
citation: 'Ramos, M., Correa-Jullian, C., McCullough, J., Ma, J. & Mosleh, A. (2023). Automated Driving Systems Operating as Mobility as a Service: Operational Risks and SAE J3016 Standard. 2023 Proc. Ann. Reliability & Maintainability Symp.'
---
**Abstract**

Level 4 (L4) Automated Driving Systems (ADS) development and testing efforts target not only personal use, but also its deployment within a Mobility as a Service (MaaS) context. MaaS operations introduce additional safety aspects related to passenger behavior, fleet operators, communication between fleet operators, ADS developers, and vehicle manufacturers. However, the operational safety of L4 ADS vehicles operating within a MaaS context has not been fully addressed. The Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) J3016 standard provides a solid foundation for the concepts related to ADS operations, including safety-related ones such as how the ADS vehicle should behave in case of a system failure or when exiting the domain in which it is designed to operate – DDT Fallback. This paper discusses J3016 essential concepts and the
challenges posed by the use of ADS vehicles, within a MaaS operation, to some of these concepts. Through Event Sequence Diagrams, new goals for the ADS DDT fallback are proposed, and the roles of remote monitoring operators for safety are discussed.

Keywords: Automated Driving Systems, Mobility as a Service, DDT Fallback, Operational Safety, J3016

[View Conference Presentation here](https://github.com/CamCorreaJullian/CamCorreaJullian.github.io/files/10528196/Paper-Presentation-template_RAMS_2023_v5.pdf)

Recommended citation: Ramos, M., Correa-Jullian, C., McCullough, J., Ma, J. & Mosleh, A. (2023). Automated Driving Systems Operating as Mobility as a Service: Operational Risks and SAE J3016 Standard. 2023 Proc. Ann. Reliability & Maintainability Symp.
