---
title: "Operational Safety Hazard Identification of Fleet Maintenance Activities for Automated Driving Systems in Mobility as a Service"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/trbarts2024
venue: "Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting 2024"
date: 2024-01-07
location: "Washington D.C, USA"
---

Authors: Camila Correa-Jullian, Marilia Ramos, Jiaqi Ma, and Ali Mosleh.

About
======
The expected deployment of vehicles equipped with SAE Level 4 (L4) Automated Driving Systems (ADS) for Mobility as a Service (MaaS) in the medium future requires
a thorough operational safety analysis. Addressing operational safety aspects of complex engineering systems is key to developing policies to prevent and mitigate
risks when scaling operations. Risk analyses of complex systems must also include organizational safety and human-related issues, as they are crucial in ensuring ADS operational safety and gaining the public's trust. An aspect often overlooked in analyses of autonomous system operation is developing and enforcing adequate
inspection and maintenance policies. This work presents the application of a system level System-Theoretic Process Analysis (STPA) and a scenario-based Concurrent
Task Analysis (CoTA) analysis for hazard identification at a process level. The methods are employed to define tasks and responsibilities key to supporting the safe
operation of the ADS vehicles based on a functional breakdown of the system, the development of operational scenarios, and the identification of safety hazards and
latent failures that may occur during vehicle inspection and maintenance activities. The identification of key roles and responsibilities of key actors within the L4 ADS fleet ecosystem may lead to the development of more robust safety barriers, including those in the form of procedure development and crew training.

Presentation slides can be found here:[TRB Annual Meeting 2024](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17303940/TRB_2024_OpSafety_Maintenance.pdf)


Recommended citation: Camila Correa-Jullian, Marilia Ramos, Jiaqi Ma, and Ali Mosleh. Operational Safety Hazard Identification of Fleet Maintenance Activities for Automated Driving Systems in Mobility as a Service. Presented at the Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting, Washington D.C, USA, 2024.
