---
title: "Hazard Identification Framework for Level 4 Automated Driving Systems Fleet Operational Safety in Mobility as a Service"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/trbarts2023
venue: "Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting 2024"
date: 2023-01-08
location: "Washington D.C, USA"
---

Authors: Camila Correa-Jullian, John McCullough, Marilia Ramos, Jiaqi Ma, and Ali Mosleh.

About
======
The safe and reliable operation of Automated Driving Systems (ADS) in the context of Mobility as a Service (MaaS) depends on a multiple of factors in addition to the vehicle’s functionality and performance. Currently, there is no clear or comprehensive approach to define the operational safety responsibilities of the key agents involved in Level 4 (L4) ADS deployed for MaaS, such as the fleet operators, the ADS developers, vehicle manufacturers, and regulatory entities. This work develops and showcases the implementation of a structured hazard identification framework, aiming to identify critical safety hazards that lead to system failures, including the potential unsafe system interactions. This framework leverages and complements the strengths of various hazard identification and modeling methods to address the inherent complexity of the interactions between multiple human and machine agents in the context of Level 4 ADS for MaaS. Based on a L4 ADS MaaS system breakdown and identification of critical operational stages, we identify and characterize operational hazards through Event Sequence Diagram (ESD), Concurrent Task Analysis (CoTA) and Fault Tree Analysis (FTA). An example is presented, modeling the systems’ behavior during a vehicle trip without passengers. Hazard scenarios related to the fleet operators not detecting or intervening the vehicle’s operation when required is further developed. The analysis highlights the role of the fleet operator in ensuring the correct operation of the vehicle and acting as a safety barrier for preventing and mitigating incidents. 

Presentation slides can be found here:[TRB Annual Meeting 2023](https://github.com/user-attachments/files/17304162/TRB_2023_OpSafety_Framework.pdf)

Recommended citation: Camila Correa-Jullian, John McCullough, Marilia Ramos, Jiaqi Ma, and Ali Mosleh. Hazard Identification Framework for Level 4Automated Driving Systems Fleet Operational Safety in Mobility as a Service. Presented at the Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting, Washington D.C, USA, 2023.
