---
title: "Human-Autonomy Teams in Automated Driving System Operations: The Case of Drivers and Remote Operators"
collection: talks
type: "Presentation"
permalink: /talks/trb2025
venue: "Transportation Research Board (TRB) Annual Meeting 2025"
date: 2025-01-05
location: "Washington D.C, USA"
---

Authors: Camila Correa-Jullian, Marilia Ramos, Ali Mosleh and Jiaqi Ma.

About
======
Automated Driving Systems (ADS) are expected to play a significant role in the mobility environment across multiple use cases, including passenger or goods transportation services, or as features in privately-owned passenger vehicles. As more use applications are being tested and deployed in public roads, there is an increasing interest in assessing real-world safety impacts and addressing new operational safety challenges. In this context, humans will continue interacting with these systems as drivers, operators, and/or fellow road users. Therefore, as crucial elements impacting the overall road safety, it is of interest to define, model and assess the interactions, collaborations, and teaming that can occur between human and autonomous agents in ADS operations. This work establishes the concept of Human-Autonomy Teams (HATs) in ADS operations, focusing on the relationship, tasks, and challenges onboard drivers and remote operators may face when interacting with highly automated vehicles. This work draws from Performance Shaping Factors (PSF) used in Human Reliability Analysis (HRA) to assess human operator’s performance in high-risk industries, such as nuclear, aviation, and maritime operations. The analysis focuses on two different teams: drivers interacting with conditional automation in privately-owned passenger vehicles and remote operators supporting highly automated vehicle fleets deployed for passenger transport. This work identifies potential factors influencing the performance of both human and automated agents in ADS operations to apply team performance models such as the Information, Decision and Action in Crew (IDAC) context, highlighting the role that organizational, individual, system, team, and scenario-related factors play in the overall system's safety.

Slides coming soon! 
